---
layout: post
title: "Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) – An Invaluable Agile Tool for your Startup"
description: ""
category: Agile
tags: [ agile tools, bdd, product owner, rant and tagged bdd, Behaviour Driven Development, cucumber, requirements, specflow, tdd]
author: Eric Hosick
author_twitter: erichosick
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Introduction

You’ve been given or put on the product owner hat at your startup. You want to make a product that is successful. Optimally, that product contains that sweet spot of features that gives you that best ROI.

How do you assure that you provide that sweet spot?

## Use Agile and Behaviour Driven Development (BDD)

### Behaviour Driven Development (BDD)

I’ve been in the software industry since I was 16. I am going on 24 years of software engineering. I’ve seen a lot of fads, technologies, and ideas come and go. BDD is here to stay. It is the biggest advance in software engineering I’ve seen in over a decade.

> BDD is here to stay.

This isn’t just the idea itself (that has been around a long time) but the implementation that is really exciting ([cucumber](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber) and [specflow](http://www.specflow.org/) being two examples).

It has been pointed out that BDD is too time consuming for the product owner, or product owners are just too lazy to follow something like BDD. Let’s get this out of the way as soon as possible.

### Validate, Mock and Describe Features

You have no excuse not to!

You’ve done the customer development, talked for hours with friends on the idea, taken input from stakeholders. Take the time to validate, mock and describe them.

* Validate it Adds Business Value
* Mock Your Feature
* Describe the Feature in Detail

### Validate Features

The final goal of your startup is to be profitable. Simply adding features does not assure profitability.

> Validate! Only implement features that make money!

### Mock Features

Use a tool like [Balsamiq Mockups](http://balsamiq.com/) or [Mocking Bird](https://gomockingbird.com/) to mock your features. These are great tools that allow the product owner to quickly explain their vision to the team.

### Describe Features

You can describe the features anyway you like. Just don’t assume anything.

Your development Team can transform what you have described into a standardised language like Gherkin.

## Behaviour Driven Development (BDD)

As a product owner, you shouldn’t simply consider BDD as something you might want to use for your startup.

You should require BDD to be implemented on your project(s).

And here is why…

### Find that Sweet Spot

In conjunction with ideas like [Customer Development](http://venturehacks.com/articles/customer-development) and Agile, BDD helps you to focus in and describe those features that give you the best ROI.

### Verify You Get What You Pay For

With BDD, it is now possible to validate that you are getting what you asked for. There is a one-to-many relationship between the features you ask for and the source code written to cover that feature.

You can, and should, hire a 3rd party contractor who will verify your team (or vendor) is using best-known practices.

### Assure Quality

I wrote a blog on [Specifications and Quality](2010-11-01-specifications-quality) simply so I could make this very important point about BDD.

Quality is directly measured against specifications and the features of your product. If you go to your stakeholders saying you are providing a quality product, or a product for that matter, without describing your features then you are lying to your stakeholders: some of whom are investors.

Maybe this is something software companies could get away with before but not anymore. BDD allows you to assure quality like no other methodology has before (I will cover TDD in another post).

### Bridges Gap Between Business and Development

It would be great if we could simply talk to a computer and ask it to do what we want. But we aren’t there yet. This is the next best thing. It might not be the perfect bridge between business and development but it is close.

The ability to read the features and behaviour of your system in a language that is effectively English is a huge value add for a company.

### Regression Testing

A side benefit of BDD is regression testing. Every time a change is made to your software, the behaviour of your system is automatically and fully tested.

### Switch Vendors Easily

Don’t like your current vendor but don’t want to have a drop in delivery time. This is no problem because the new vendor can be assured that they will not break existing behaviour.

### Switch Technology Easily

Don’t like your current technology? Just switch. BDD languages, such as Gherkin, are supported across different computer languages and platforms. Effectively, your entire business process has been described centrally in a language that anyone can understand. Your business process is not longer embedded solely in weird programming languages that most people don’t understand.

## Conclusion

I could go on with advantages but I think the point is made. BDD increases reliability, provides for quality, keeps you on your toes, keeps you team on their toes, keeps people focused, allows for regression testing, provides a one-to-many correlation between specifications and source code and removes a lot of risk in the software engineering process.

*Require your teams to start using it today.*




